readme.md, before:

# Mijn-Amsterdam Front-end

Hi and welcome to the **Mijn-Amsterdam** front-end repository!

This repo is the main codebase for the web application found at [mijn.amsterdam.nl](https://mijn.amsterdam.nl) which
is a portal for official communication with the municipality of Amsterdam. The application consits of 2 main parts:

- React application
- Node Express back-end-for-frontend (BFF)

To see the application quickly running locally, clone the repo and cd into the project folder. Put the following commands in your terminal:

```
$ npm install -g ts-node
$ npm install
$ npm run bff-api:watch
$ npm start
```

## Accessibility + Targeted browsers

The Mijn Amsterdam design and development team works hard to ensure mijn.amsterdam.nl is [accessible](https://mijn.amsterdam.nl/toegankelijkheidsverklaring). 
Not all browsers in the world are supported. The targeted browsers can be found [here](https://github.com/Amsterdam/mijn-amsterdam-frontend/blob/main/package.json#L17).

## React application

- The language used is `Typescript`
- The application is built and tested via [create react app](https://create-react-app.dev/). 
- Only functional components are used in combination with the hooks api.
- For styling we use [scss](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-a-sass-stylesheet) and [scss modules](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-a-css-modules-stylesheet)

There is no super strict convention (yet) for grouping components, functions, types etc. For larger components we might want to separate for example additional components, helpers, config and constants
into other files as done in `src/client/pages/Profile` or `src/server/services/focus`. 

A blueprint for basic components can be found in `components/AlphaComponent/`. A blueprint for page components is locataed in `pages/AlphaPage`.
To generate a component based on these blueprints you can either copy/paste rename stuff or use a tool like `npm install -g generact` which can
be used to duplicate any component and assign it a specific name.


## BFF api

The BFF api is the goto part of the application where we do data fetching, data transformations, short-lived request/response caching, error handling and response formatting.
The codebase is also written in typescript so a compilation step is required for it to work. For development purposes we use `ts-node` which takes care of compiling and running the BFF app.


## Tooling

#### System
- `node`
- `typescript` 
- `create-react-app`

#### IDE plugins
- `prettier`
- `.editorconfig`
- `eslint`

#### Testing and development
- `puppeteer` for fiddling with screenshot regression testing (not built into pipeline or any other frequently used process)
- `cypress` for e2e testing
- `ts-node` for BFF development

### Branch naming + PR

- When creating a new branch, preferably, branch off `main`
- When creating a branch, start the name with a ticket number from Jira e.g: `mijn-1234-update-logo`
- Try to rebase on main and squash commits when PR'ing to it so we keep a fairly clean commit log on Main

### Continuous integration / Continuous deployment

We currently work with a trunk based development approach. [see also](https://trunkbaseddevelopment.com) This means we have relatively short lived branches and only 1 main branch (main)
The main branch should always be production worthy in terms of functionality, stability and code quality.
Every release to production is accompanied with a release tag in the from of: `release-v1.2.3`. Whenever you are about create a release, use the `npm run release:(major|minor|bug)` command. This command
creates a [semver](https://semver.org/) version of the release tag and pushes it to origin. The CI/CD pipeline will automatically detect the tag and starts building a production image.

The building and testing is done via Jenkins which uses `Docker` and `docker-compose` to control server stack requirements and pipeline set-up/running.

### E2E testing

The e2e tests run via de [CRA setupProxy](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/proxying-api-requests-in-development/) against the BFF api as server with the Axios Mock adapter enabled. 
Both React app and BFF are built first before they are subjected to the end-2-end tests.

Commit message:

Add resident count to profile
Signed-off-by: Tim van Oostrom <tim@depulz.nl>

readme.md, after:

# Mijn-Amsterdam Front-end

Hi and welcome to the **Mijn-Amsterdam** front-end repository!

This repo is the main codebase for the web application found at [mijn.amsterdam.nl](https://mijn.amsterdam.nl) which
is a portal for official communication with the municipality of Amsterdam. The application consits of 2 main parts:

- React application
- Node Express back-end-for-frontend (BFF)

To see the application quickly running locally, clone the repo and cd into the project folder. Put the following commands in your terminal:

```
$ npm install -g ts-node
$ npm install
$ npm run bff-api:watch
$ npm start
```

## Accessibility + Targeted browsers

The Mijn Amsterdam design and development team works hard to ensure mijn.amsterdam.nl is [accessible](https://mijn.amsterdam.nl/toegankelijkheidsverklaring). 
Not all browsers in the world are supported. The targeted browsers can be found [here](https://github.com/Amsterdam/mijn-amsterdam-frontend/blob/main/package.json#L17).

## React application

- The language used is `Typescript`
- The application is built and tested via [create react app](https://create-react-app.dev/). 
- Only functional components are used in combination with the hooks api.
- For styling we use [scss](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-a-sass-stylesheet) and [scss modules](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-a-css-modules-stylesheet)

There is no super strict convention (yet) for grouping components, functions, types etc. For larger components we might want to separate for example additional components, helpers, config and constants
into other files as done in `src/client/pages/Profile` or `src/server/services/focus`. 

A blueprint for basic components can be found in `components/AlphaComponent/`. A blueprint for page components is locataed in `pages/AlphaPage`.
To generate a component based on these blueprints you can either copy/paste rename stuff or use a tool like `npm install -g generact` which can
be used to duplicate any component and assign it a specific name.


## BFF api

The BFF api is the goto part of the application where we do data fetching, data transformations, short-lived request/response caching, error handling and response formatting.
The codebase is also written in typescript so a compilation step is required for it to work. For development purposes we use `ts-node` which takes care of compiling and running the BFF app.

### BFF Development api

The BFF also has a router that's intended for development purposes only. Not all api requests are targeted at the BFF api in production, some requests are made to the microservice api's directly.
For this pupose we have a development router with mock endpoints see `router-development.ts`. For example, vergunning documents and resident count are retrieved directly without going through the BFF.
It's basically an additional development server integrated in the BFF api.


## Tooling

#### System
- `node`
- `typescript` 
- `create-react-app`

#### IDE plugins
- `prettier`
- `.editorconfig`
- `eslint`

#### Testing and development
- `puppeteer` for fiddling with screenshot regression testing (not built into pipeline or any other frequently used process)
- `cypress` for e2e testing
- `ts-node` for BFF development

### Branch naming + PR

- When creating a new branch, preferably, branch off `main`
- When creating a branch, start the name with a ticket number from Jira e.g: `mijn-1234-update-logo`
- Try to rebase on main and squash commits when PR'ing to it so we keep a fairly clean commit log on Main

### Continuous integration / Continuous deployment

We currently work with a trunk based development approach. [see also](https://trunkbaseddevelopment.com) This means we have relatively short lived branches and only 1 main branch (main)
The main branch should always be production worthy in terms of functionality, stability and code quality.
Every release to production is accompanied with a release tag in the from of: `release-v1.2.3`. Whenever you are about create a release, use the `npm run release:(major|minor|bug)` command. This command
creates a [semver](https://semver.org/) version of the release tag and pushes it to origin. The CI/CD pipeline will automatically detect the tag and starts building a production image.

The building and testing is done via Jenkins which uses `Docker` and `docker-compose` to control server stack requirements and pipeline set-up/running.

### E2E testing

The e2e tests run via de [CRA setupProxy](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/proxying-api-requests-in-development/) against the BFF api as server with the Axios Mock adapter enabled. 
Both React app and BFF are built first before they are subjected to the end-2-end tests.
